Let us write a program for finding the area of a
circle.
So for that i will take a float variables that is a radius of a circle and area of a circle.
Now let Us take the input.
What is the radius "enter radius" then cin "read radius r" then find out area. area is 3.1425f
is a float value multiplied by a radius and again radius that is radius square then cout
"area is" Area variable.
endl. let us run the program and see
enter radius. he is asking for radius.
I'll give the radius as 7
says 153.98.
Instead of taking a float value even I can say 22 divided by seven.
But this will give integers.
Let us try and see what will be the result.
7 is 147.
Actually it should be exact value should be 154 but it is giving 147 because this is not taking a
float value.
This is giving 22 divided by seven.
This gives only three.
I want a float value so one method is I can make this number as flawed.
So the  22 divided by a seven seven is float value.
So it will give a float result multiplied by as well.
Will give me a float result.
Let's check what happens
radius is 7.
Yes.
Now it is giving exact as well that is 154.
That the way instead of making it as point zero.
I can also write float in front of this and let us check now again.
Seven, 154.
See if I don't write seven.
It was taking 22 divided by seven.
So it will divide for three time.
So it was taking just three.
So the decimal part was removed decimal part was truncated.
So by converting into flooat we are getting correct result instead of 22 or 7 if i write .
Three Point 1 4 to 5.
So it is up to 4 digits only.
So I'm not getting the exact Result  instead of  154
I'm getting one fifty three point nine.
So that said it depends what type of values you are using in an expression.
The result will depend on that.
So you have to be careful with this one.
These are the basic blocks of our program.
So if the expressions are perfect than the results will be perfect
Let us write a program for finding the roots of a quadratic equation.
So I will take coefficients that is a b and c.
I'm taking these as integer and float type of root.
So that is root1 and root 2.
Now let's take input.
Enter
three values that is coefficients then cin  read a b and c.
Now how to find the root is root of 1 is
minus B plus sqrt of b into B minus 4 into a into c
then this is divided by two into a.
So this to a it should be dividing the entire numerator.
So all those things will come in numerical.
Now this is the perfect expression.
Now same way I will find out
second root also.
And the second root is with minus one.
Now let us see what the error message I am getting here.
The error message I am getting here is use of undeclared identifier.
indentifier ie 'sqrt'
So far that I should include.
Math.h this function is present in my library now that the error message is gone and here I will
say cout root one and some space between them and then are root two an endl
so you have to be very careful about writing the expression pattern.
This is very important.
So what do you want.
Based on that.
Be careful that you are writing their expressions so you get the correct answer.
First you should know what you want and you should make sure that you have written the expression perfectly
to get the required answer.
Let's run this and see give the values where we get the equal roots, a value is four B value is 8 and C value is
of 4 again.
Now the result is minus one minus one for the roots are equal.
So that's it.
So there's a simple program for finding the roots of quadratic equation.
Now let us write a program for finding the speed of the initial velocity.
That is u and final velocity that is v and  acceleration as a and the speed I may get it as float value
so I will declare it as float.
Then cout enter.
So I should mention initial final velocity and acceleration so I'll just say three numbers, enter three
numbers then cin.
I will read the values that is U and V and A.
Now for calculating speed.
The formula is v square that is v into V minus.
u square that is u into u divided by 2 into a.
No this will be wrong because 2 a.
Everything is in denominator so they should be enclosed in brackets and this entire thing is in numerators
so it should divide the whole value.
That is v square minus u Square.
Now this is perfect.
And finally we will cout
speed is
the value that is we got in variable speed
initial velocity is 10 and the final velocity is 40 and the acceleration is 3.
So speed is 250.
Thats it these are a few simple programs.
More programs will be given  in exercise.
You solve them and practice the programs.